---
title: Tips for a Healthy Conceptual Memory
draft: true
---

1. **See the things you're learning as important and exciting.** Our brains only
   remember things of note. The more notable your thoughts, the better your
   memory of it will be. See the beauty in what you'd like to learn.

2. **Integrate new learnings with older knowledge.** Think of analogies. Think
   of times when you would have found this new thing helpful. Ask yourself,
   "What does this new concept remind me of?" Perhaps you already know this new
   concept, but in different terms. Allow your mind to wander and explore!
   Daydream!

3. **Allow plurality.** Try not to associate the concepts you learn with how
   agreeable you find them. It's important that you can hold memories that you
   think are false. This way, even false things can contribute to a fuller
   perspective. Darkness is more than the absence of light.

4. **Allow contradictions.** Many concepts held in your memory will contradict
   each other. This is provably unavoidable. Contradictions are often very
   interesting places to explore within your mind. "This sentence is false."

5. **Remove your value judgements.** Don't associate your emotional responses
   with the perspectives you're learning. Your values influence your memory, and
   your memory determines your values. If you ever find yourself saying, "Oh, I
   hate X... but I don't remember specifically why," you've probably made this
   conflation.

6. **Avoid causality.** Think of things as being related, rather than one thing
   causing the another. Correlation is more important than causality, and
   causality is far more likely to change over time. Things also tend to happen
   for a multitude of reasons. The best recipes have more than one ingredient.

7. **Separate conflations.** When learning new things, we often begin to see old
   concepts in a new way. It's important that we use this to our advantage.
   You'll often have to retract connections that you made previously. Don't trap
   yourself in the box.
